Sasikala has given the Commission a list of 20 doctors who had treated  Jayalalithaa between November 2014 and September 2016.

In an affidavit filed before the Justice A. Arumughaswamy Commission (probing  Jayalalithaas death), Sasikala provides an account of what transpired at  Jayalalithaas residence before she was rushed to hospital.

Earlier in the day, Dr. Sivakumar had examined Jayalalithaa twice.  

Sasikala has declared that Jayalalithaa regained consciousness in the ambulance  and asked where they were taking her.

Significantly, Sasikala has said she suggested a visit to the hospital on that  very day, but Jayalalithaa had refused to go.   

According to sources privy to the 55page, 99paragraph affidavit filed on March  12, Dr. Sivakumar phoned Vijay Kumar Reddy, husband of Apollo Hospitals vice chairperson Preetha Reddy.

According to Sasikala, Jayalalithaas health deteriorated significantly in the  first week of September 2016, partly because of fluctuating sugar levels.   

Sasikala claims that Jayalalithaas  health issues were mainly due to the stress caused by her conviction (and  imprisonment) in the disproportionate assets case in September 2014.   

According to her aide V.K. Sasikala,  Jayalalithaa had indicated she was unwell while she was in the bathroom situated  on the first floor of her Poes Garden residence, after having brushed her teeth.   

The  Apollo team brought an unconscious Jayalalithaa down from her bedroom on a  stretcher.

Shortly afterwards, K.S. Sivakumar, Sasikalas relative and a doctor, entered the  room.

Jayalalithaa had chosen  to contest from the R.K. Nagar constituency in Chennai only because her mobility  had been affected greatly due to high levels of blood sugar, the affidavit states.   

Page 1 of 1  It was at 9.30 p.m. on September 22, 2016, that then Tamil Nadu Chief Minister  Jayalalithaa called out for help.

Two ambulances were despatched from Apollos Greames  Road and Teynampet hospitals, which reached the residence in 10 or 15 minutes.

A member of Sasikalas legal team told The Hindu that they wanted these doctors to  testify before the Commission.  

They work in different  private hospitals in Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata.   

Two doctors, a diabetologist and a dermatologist, were consulted and they  prescribed low dosage steroid tablets.   

Her fever subsided later, the affidavit says.

The police control room was informed and roads cleared of traffic.   

The mental stress adversely affected her health, she says.